[Music]
okay listen up I hate to break it to you
but the Earth's orbit isn't a circle but
in oval shaped ellipse and the length of
the day is not 24
but 23.93 hours precise enough for you
we humans think these facts for granted
but what if one day we had to move the
entire planet to a completely new orbit
and change the existing order before we
figure out if there's any way to push
our planet out of its orbit let's find
out why we might need to do so here I
don't want to sugarcoat it our doomsday
is approaching even if the planet
doesn't get overheated due to global
warming the Sun will finish it off you
see the Sun which is literally the
sponsor of life on Earth is also our
planets biggest enemy in a way the star
is getting hotter and hotter as the
centuries passed and one day about 5
billion years from now the Sun will
inevitably turn into a swollen red giant
its bloated outer shell consisting of
gas will keep swelling up until it
reaches its maximum size and brightness
and then about two billion years later
the Sun will swallow the earth okay so
it's not happening tomorrow but people
won't be around to see it
long before that in about 1 billion
years the Sun will have already grown
more than 11 percent brighter it'll make
the average temperature on earth rise to
at least 120 degrees Fahrenheit you
might think that such an increase won't
be critical like come on people are
tougher than that no more snow and
puffer coats we'll deal with it but the
situation would be much worse even this
increase in temperature will lead to the
world oceans getting dramatically warmer
the water will start to evaporate like
it does when you leave a pot of water in
the Sun animals and plants will have to
adapt to the hot house that used to be
our friendly and green planet
unfortunately with time the Sun will
only grow hotter and soon only random
single-celled organisms will roam the
surface of the planet
but not for long once all the water
turns into vapor the ultraviolet light
coming from the Sun will break the water
molecules and the hydrogen which is a
crucial building material for all kinds
of living cells will slowly but surely
leak into space what I mean is that if
our descendants want to stay alive
they'll have to migrate to another
planet or maybe even galaxies but can
you imagine what effort it would cost
them to relocate the population of the
whole planet keep in mind that in 100
years the Earth's population will have
already reached at least 11 billion
people so let's see first people of the
future would have to build millions of
space shuttles and make billions of
shuttle launches and it it still takes
thousands of years to deliver all the
Earth's inhabitants to their new home
also it would take unimaginable amounts
of fuel even if people flew no further
than to another planet in the solar
system and then how about all the
settling-down problems imagine having to
change the new planet so it can satisfy
human needs all this hassle with wider
oxygen and food boy that's why another
option will likely come into play people
will have to change the orbit of the
planet before the disaster strikes to
avoid the tragic outcome theoretically
moving the earth to a new orbit is
possible but people must be very careful
while doing it if something goes wrong
and the planet loses its orbit
completely it's likely to go astray and
crash into the Sun that's why new orbit
calculations have to be super precise
and orbit too close to our star and
we'll get burned a bit too far and we'll
be frozen scientists have even
calculated that to keep leading a
comfortable life or at least survive
people would have to change the orbit of
the planet so that it's 9.5% further
from the Sun than it is now in other
words Earth should be traveling at 102
million miles away from our star instead
of the current 93 million miles anyway
people of the future decide to try their
look and move the planet which means
moving almost
sextillion x' and that six billion
trillion tons at first a mega strong and
long last solution our descendants think
that maybe they'll be able to lay their
hands on some stray asteroid and it'll
pull earth into a different orbit but
they come across several serious
problems for one thing where can you
find a material strong enough to carry
the weight of the whole planet besides
how can you be sure that this asteroid
will take you exactly where you need to
get and as you remember we need to move
the planet not to just any but to a very
particular orbit and finally such a
sudden Pole might cause chaos on the
planet after its outer layer moves and
sets off a series of devastating
tsunamis and earthquakes that's why
after considering the potentially
catastrophic consequences of this method
our descendants would decide to look for
an alternative may be an effective way
out would be moving the planet out of
its orbit with the help of a gigantic
light sail light is supposed to be
reflected from the Sun toward our planet
and get caught by a solar sail placed
somewhere on earth but once people
calculate all the details they'll find
out that the reflective disc of the
light sail would have to be more than 19
times bigger than the diameter of the
planet otherwise it would take more than
1 billion years for earth to change its
orbit so most likely our descendants
would cost this plan too but then
someone will come up with the idea of
electric thrusters the thing is that
even nowadays the Earth's orbit is
already changed every time a rocket
launches from the planet when it takes
off it pushes the earth in the opposite
direction but of course the effect is
imperceptible but what if people
launched billions of rockets at the same
time well it'd be hard to accomplish
since they'd need tons of different
building materials and fuel more than
our planet could provide but an electric
thruster could become a cool alternative
especially if we talk about ion drives
people have been using such drives on
spaceships since the 60s
worked by shooting out charged particles
which makes the spacecraft move forward
these ion engines need much less
maintenance and are also way cheaper
than the ones were used to also they
don't have turbines propellers or fuel
pumps so there are fewer things that can
break down but when ion drives were just
invented they didn't produce enough for
us to escape the Earth's gravity and the
weight of the batteries that could deal
with this problem was just too great
this way spaceships couldn't rely solely
on these engines but centuries from now
people are likely to either invent more
powerful batteries or use some
breakthrough technologies to power the
engines should it come true our
descendants could point several massive
electric thrusters in the necessary
direction and press the start button the
thrusters would float above the Earth's
atmosphere somewhere around an altitude
of 600 miles but they'd still be
attached to the surface of the planet so
they could move it in the right
direction
unfortunately people would have to turn
up to 13% of the Earth's mass into ions
to transport the remaining bulk of the
planet but come to think of it this
method could work out and if people
managed this unprecedented feat and did
change the orbit of the planet as
planned there'd be some noticeable
changes for example the Sun would look a
tiny bit smaller and its influence on
the Earth's tides would be a bit weaker
our planets orbital speed would drop
down from 18 point 6 to 17 point 7 miles
per second and perhaps most importantly
should the length of the day on our
planet remain the same the year would
become longer not 365 but 418 days
bottom line your annual salary would
stay the same but with a longer year you
get paid a lot less each week well
forget that hey if you learned something
new today then give the video a like and
share it with a friend and here are some
other videos I think he'll enjoy just
click to the left or right and remember
stay on the bright side of life
you